h1. *POPStarter Changelogs*
______________________________________________________________________








* *POPStarter Revision 13, Build Date : 2015/06/03, WIP 05 PUBLIC RELEASE*


pre. 
- Bugfixed : IOP reset code misalignment that randomly caused a fatal IOP crash before the POPS execution (doh !)
- Integration of all the current game fixes TROJANs to POPStarter (but the Casper ones, because they need some serious reworks). Updated 5-AUTOMATED.TXT.
- Integration of the Harry Potter And The Chamber Of Secrets (SLUS-01503) crash fix that was built today. I also added the TROJAN in the Game Fixes folder.
- Added automatic compatibility mode activations for Gran Turismo v1.0 (SCUS-94194), Gran Turismo 2 (Simulation Mode) v1.0 (SCUS-94488), Gran Turismo 2 (Simulation Mode) v1.0 (SCUS-94488) and Gran Turismo 2 (Arcade Mode) v1.1 (SCUS-94455)
- Gran Turismo (SCUS-94194) renamed as Gran Turismo v1.1 (SCUS-94194) in the internal database, because I added the identification data of Gran Turismo v1.0 (SCUS-94194)
- Commited changes to uLE upon request, and included it in this package (uLE_kHn_20150602)
- Corrected a mistake in 1-INSTALLATION.TXT (because POPS actually does not allow white spaces in partition names)
NOTES : So, I tried the "partition icon to VMC folder icon" function of WIP 02. Does not work; looks like that thing never worked lol, so I don't try to reimplement it for now.

* *POPStarter Revision 13, Build Date : 2015/05/31, WIP 04 PUBLIC RELEASE*

pre. 

- Removed the messed up partition icon to VMC folder icon code. It was saving garbage data in list.ico, so the VMC folders of PP. installed games were displayed as "corrupted data".

* *POPStarter Revision 13, Build Date : 2015/04/24, WIP 03 PUBLIC RELEASE*


pre. 
- Fixed: SJIS conversion error in the icon.sys generator for the VMC directories
- Fixed: PS logo did not show up with NTSC U/C and PAL games
- Bugfixed : Unable to inject the user ID in the VMC names, in USB mode
- Added a new PS BIOS region-freeing method
- Added ToolBox 1.0 + the CUE2POPS function batch, POPS2CUE 1.0, uLE_kHn_20150506, IGR behaviour modifiers, No 2nd pad in IGR (2014/09/02) and Game Fixes (2014/11/29) to the release bundle
NOTES : No new game fixes / compatibility modes were added in this build. Only the known internal bugs were fixed, and I decided to release it now because I've also resolved the PStwo / PS2 w/o HDD issue in uLE...


* *POPStarter Revision 13, Build Date : 2014/08/22, WIP 02 PUBLIC RELEASE*

pre. 
    - Added ~160 LibCrypt cracks (experimental), and truckloads of compatibility modes autoactivations. POPStarter now recognises 402 DISCS (see 5-AUTOMATED.TXT for the list).
    - Bugfixed: POPS couldn't rename SLOT#.OLD as SLOT#.VMC when the VMC path was too long. To fix that, I've simply relinked the .OLD path to the .VMC pointer like I did for the USB mode in a previous POPStarter build...
    - Bugfixed: POPStarter failed to set its debug display in realtime mode when the delay value was 0xFF. It's fixed now....
    - IGR skin and IRX loaders are now enabled by default (in the configuration table)
    - The POPStarter ELF/KELF configuration table now allows you to force up to 8 compatibility modes together
    - Removed the tty on/off switch from the USB mode launcher. It's useless now, since the PFS wrapper author did compile it with the debug stuff commented out.
    - POPStarter was compiled with the USB SUPPORT ON. Now you can load Delcro's PFS Wrapper and play your games from a USB drive
    - Added Delcro's new build (2014/08/06) of the PFS wrapper in the POPStarter release package
    - Here too, I did not try the KELF before putting the stuff together and releasing the package. Only the ELF was tested.
    - Development status is still WIP, although I'll take mah vacations soon


* *POPStarter Revision 13 - 2014/07/11, WIP 01 PUBLIC RELEASE*

pre. 
- Removed the PL-2301 launch method, same for the debugging thru NapClient.
- LC cracks for Ape Escape (SCES-02028), Ape Escape (SCES-01564) and Ape Escape (SCES-02031) were added.
- The POPS.PAK decompression bug that occured when debug printing was turned OFF has been fixed.
- Compiled with the NO_PFS_WRAPPER def, so it's OK to be distributed.
- The KELF wasn't tested. None of the betatesters (including me) use the HDDOSD crap anymore. The ELF was launched via uLE when testing in the PSX.
- The current project status is work in progress



* *POPStarter Revision 12 - "No Debug" - 2013/05/14*

pre. 
+ Removed libdebug
+ Removed the IMAGE0.VCD checker
+ Stripped down the OSD.BIN header parser
+ Linked expected failures/errors to TESTMODE



* *POPStarter Revision 12 - 2013/05/12*

pre. 
+ SCPH-50000 fix
+ Optimisation of the VMC dir checker and the OSD/BIOS handlers
+ Removed some time consuming container integrity verifiers
+ The KELF's payload was stripped down



* *POPStarter Revision 11 - 2013/04/30*

pre. 
+ Fixed BIOS & OSD handlers activation failure in EXECUTE.KELF



* *POPStarter Revision 11 - 2013/04/24*

pre. 
+ Added the "ELF name to argument" thing in LAUNCHER (LAUNCHER.ELF) and PORTABLE (EXECUTE.ELF) builds
+ Solved a file length problem in the OSD replacement file handler
+ Now displays entrypoint relocations of OSD replacement files (limited to jumps from the segment start and the EOF)
+ LAUNCHER, PORTABLE and KEXEC builds were packaged all together



* *POPStarter Revision 10 [PATINFO/KEXEC Bundle] - 2013/04/19*

pre. 
+ Added on-screen debug info at container startup
+ Added an error handler
+ Added an user BIOS handler
+ Added an OSD replacement image handler
+ Fixed a bug in VMC directory naming
+ Container protections were completely rewritten



*POPStarter Revision 9 [PATINFO/KEXEC Bundle] - 2013/04/09*

pre. 
First public release
