h1. Installing POPStarter for internal HDD
______________________________________________________________________________________________________________


h3. _POPS decrypted files :_

To use POPStarter with an internal HDD, you have to find and download the POPS decrypted files. These files are named "POPS.ELF" and "IOPRP252.IMG"... They files are copyrighted and contains sony material. You are on your own to find them (google is your friend ;) )

| *File name* | *MD5* | *Description* | *Location* |
| POPS.ELF | 355a892a8ce4e4a105469d4ef6f39a42 | main SLBB-00001 ELF, decrypted | __common/POPS/ |
| IOPRP252.IMG | 1db9c6020a2cd445a7bb176a1a3dd418 | can be found in some retail game discs and $CEI SDKs too | __common/POPS/ |

h3. _Other Software Requirements :_

* A software that allows you to convert your disc images to the POPS virtual CDROM format (such as ToolBox or CUE2POPS)
* A software that allows you to manage/create partitions in your PS2 HDD (such as AKuHAK's uLaunchELF build)
* A software that allows you to copy the decrypted POPS file to the __common partition of your PS2 HDD (such as AKuHAK's uLaunchELF build)
* A software that allows you to transfer the converted disc images to your PS2 HDD (such as PFSshell, or uLaunchELF and RadHostClient...)
* A PS2 software that allows you to execute the POPStarter ELFs (such as uLaunchELF, or Free Harddisk Drive Boot...) or a GUI to execute POPSTARTER.ELF by selecting the VCDs (such as uLE_kHn_20150602)

h3. _Hardware Requirements :_

* A PS2 console which is able to run PS2 unsigned code
* A network adapter with/or a HDD interface
* A PS2-formatted HDD that fits your network adapter/HDD interface

h3. _Installing the Emulator :_

# Find and download the decrypted emulator files;
# Create a directory named "POPS" in the "__common" partition of your PS2 HDD;
# Paste POPS.ELF and IOPRP252.IMG into the "POPS" directory you've just created.

h3. _Installing your PS1 Games :_ 

# Convert your BIN/CUE disc images to .VCD files using the latest stable version of CUE2POPS;
# Create a partition named "__.POPS" in your PS2 HDD, large enough so you can put all your VCDs inside.

h3. _Installing POPStarter :_ 

* Rename the POPStarter ELF as the name of your VCDs, replace the .VCD extension with a .elf extension;[example : for running a VCD named "Gran Turismo.VCD", the POPStarter ELF must be renamed as "Gran Turismo.elf"]
* Copy or leave the ELFs where you want to run them from.