h1. *BIOS & OSD Handler*


______________________________________________________________________________________________________________
_[Up-to-date with WIP 06, OBT 13 (2015/12/07)]_

h2. _BIOS handler :_ 


You can use a PlayStation BIOS dump with POPS. Put a "BIOS.BIN" file in the VMC directory (example : __common/POPS/PBPX-95000.MY_GAME/BIOS.BIN) so POPStarter can handle it.
If you didn't, POPS will use the built-in BIOS.



______________________________________________________________________________________________________________


h2. _OSD handler :_ 


If you put an OSD replacement image in the VMC directory, named as "OSD.BIN" (example : __common/POPS/PBPX-95000.MY_GAME/OSD.BIN), it will be injected in the built-in BIOS for POPS to run it.
When using a OSD replacement file, "BIOS.BIN" is ignored. 


pre. 
===================================================
OSD Replacement Image [Version 1] Header Structure
===================================================

Offset 0h to 8h		= Identifier (PS-X OSD)
Offset 8h to Ch		= NULL NULL NULL NULL
Offset Ch		= Image version (Currently 0x01 for Version 1, POPStarter Rev.10 compatible)
Offset Dh		= NULL
Offset Eh		= Program/OSD build, user defined
Offset Fh		= NULL
Offset 10h to 14h	= Load Address
Offset 14h to 18h	= Entrypoint
Offset 18h to 1Ch	= RESERVED RESERVED RESERVED RESERVED
Offset 1Ch to 20h	= Size of the OSD (loadable segment size, the header length is excluded)
Offset 20h to 34h	= Program/OSD name, 20 ASCII chars max, terminated with 0x00 (user defined)
Offset 34h to 40h	= UNDEFINED (must be NULL)
Offset 40h		= Executable segment start


========================================
LIMITATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS [Version 1]
========================================

+ The file identifier must be "PS-X OSD"
+ The name of the OSD replacement (in the header, starting from offset 20h) must be at least 1 ASCII character long; the length can be up to 20 characters
+ The OSD Load Address and the Entrypoint have to be multiples of 10000h
+ The image version (offset Ch) and the OSD build (offset Eh) cannot be NULL
+ NULL/RESERVED/UNDEFINED fields have to be NULL
+ The size of the OSD replacement file (OSD.BIN) has to be the header length PLUS the OSD size

"Infos":http://assemblergames.com/l/threads/ps2-pops-stuff.45347/page-4#post-667305


______________________________________________________________________________________________________________

h1. "*Back*":https://bitbucket.org/SaulGoodman/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/Home