h1. *Cheat Engine*


______________________________________________________________________________________________________________

POPStarter has an embedded cheat engine that supports Gameshark/Action Replay PS1 codes (PS1 RAW codes of types 30, 50, 80 and D0 are supported). Some basic rules about the cheat engine : 

* codes will be stored into a txt file named CHEATS.TXT placed into the VMC game folder (each game will have his own dedicated CHEATS.TXT file) ;
* each code line has to start with the $ character otherwise the code is not enabled ;
* each code line must have a space between the adress and the value ;

*Example - Castlevania - Symphony of the Night (NTSC-U) :* 

pre. 
POPS/Castlevania - Symphony of the Night (NTSC-U)/CHEATS.TXT

CHEATS.TXT content : 

pre. 
$SAFEMODE
$80097BA0 270F // Infinite Health

*Notes :* 

* It is *highly recommended* to have to "$SAFEMODE command":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/special-cheats code at the very first line of the CHEATS.TXT file ;
* Some PS1 games need mastercodes otherwise they crash (ex : Air Race Championship). Only type C0 are supported. Mastercodes of type C1 (aka activation on delay time) are not and will not be supported ;
* You can disable a code if your remove the $ character from the code ;
* You can enable a code for ALL your games if you place the CHEATS.TXT file in POPS folder instead of the VMC game folder ;
* You can find a list of useful generic commands "here":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/special-cheats ;
* "Gamehacking.org":http://gamehacking.org/system/psx/all is a great place for PS1 cheats code.



* Massive PS1 codes list in PS2 RAW format - ready-to-use - can be found "here":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/ps1-codes-in-ps2-raw-format.
* POPS Mastercode - for use with a PS2 cheat device (ps2rd, codebreaker, Cheat device...) is 902377F4 0C0902EF. You don't need it if you use CHEATS.TXT.
* To convert a PS1 code to PS2 RAW format,  add $01000000 to the adresses and comply with the code type definitions of the target PS2 cheat engine. For more info about how to convert codes, check this "post":https://assemblergames.com/threads/ps2-pops-stuff.45347/page-27#post-760915.

PS1 RAW codes of types 30, 50, 80 and D0 are supported 


______________________________________________________________________________________________________________

h2. _Related stuff :_ 

You may want to give a look at this : 

* "Special Cheats – Automated Codes":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/special-cheats.
* [CHEATS] "Widescreen Codes Archive":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/ps1-widescreen-codes.


______________________________________________________________________________________________________________

h3. "*Index*":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/index