h1. *Game Compatibility*


______________________________________________________________________________________________________________



h2. _Compatibility rates (04/21/2016) :_ 


pre. 
* MODE (Region) : XX% games playable (games partially or perfectly emulated/games tested)


* HDD (PAL) : 78% (343/438)
* HDD (NTSC) : 75% (165/219)
* USB (PAL) : 79% (298/377)
* USB (NTSC) : 83% (211/252)
* SMB (PAL) : 76% (133/174)
* SMB (NTSC) : 80% (92/114)

______________________________________________________________________________________________________________


h2. _Compatibility lists and forms :_ 

These compatibility lists are managed by AlGollan84 (aka Algol aka Allan58) and krHACKen.

* *Rev 13 Official Compatibility Lists :*

| *Device* | *Compatibility list* | *Form to submit reports* |
| HDD | "here":https://docs.google.com/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0AkthiKwj1VJMdFIzb3NuOWU2eWZqUDNwVl9uTzFPTGc#gid=0 | "here":https://docs.google.com/forms/d/17fb0I0GxnPpIuCvayFgFhd8MlozcBqR42kdzuOA5b1I/viewform |
| USB | "here":https://docs.google.com/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0AkthiKwj1VJMdGJyVDdyRXBQR0RsOTNrM3hvaFdacmc#gid=0 | "here":https://docs.google.com/forms/d/10oPoxZvdtiO3YOe9kX_isgCkJMizCD_nvcf6TH4Xvck/viewform |
| SMB | "here":https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1LoLl_YVY2qlJN6F3Ubwd0AvqkeK0tbHqrIEjBiGmDpQ/edit#gid=0 | "here":https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1zimkx1nufqgF808EyoDqC9_USV2FqSQKlka678wo67w/viewform |

* *EOL Compatibility List* (managed by El_Patas) : "here":http://www.el_patas.byethost10.com/pops/pops0-9.html.

* *Old Compatibility Lists* (outdated & locked, for history) : 
. POPStarter Rev 12 : "here":https://docs.google.com/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0As_WFUFvrRw5dE5fWEU1TTlscW9XMUtuTE12aU04d3c#gid=0.
. POPS-00001 : "here":https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1OKjHsF2sk3LH6X9NiELvbK7fEkXnOyG3zidDjUvNRUk/edit#gid=0.

______________________________________________________________________________________________________________

h2. _Compatibility modes :_ 

If your game is poorly emulated, you can try to enable a compatibility mode to see if it helps.

| *Compatibility mode* | *Description* |
| 0×01 | Helps restoring the music/voices in several games. |
| 0x02 | A variant of mode 0×01, with a second hack for not breaking the MDECoding of FMVs (was designed for the Colony Wars series). |
| 0x03 | Can be used if the mode 0×01 doesn’t provide the expected results. |
| 0x04 | Fixes slowdowns, flickering, and many other glitches (prevents the emulator from writing a garbage value in two of the virtual GPU registers). |
| 0x05 | Made for fixing the cutscenes of the PAL Resident Evil: Director’s Cut. |
| 0x06 | Disables the OSD shell of the emulator’s built-in BIOS, making some games that freeze on startup run. |
| 0x07 | Fixes the missing textures problems (example : "Tomb Raider III":https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3LmGlgY_rNs&feature=youtu.be ). |

*Caution :* Modes 0x01, 0x02, 0x03 and 0x05 cannot be enabled in the same time or combined. These are variants of the same hack and they are conflicting, so use only use one of them at a time. Please let us know (at "ASSEMblergames":http://assemblergames.com/l/threads/ps2-pops-stuff.45347/) if you managed to solve a problem in your game by forcing modes, so the fix can be integrated in POPStarter.

*How to use a mode :*

* using a PATCH_X.BIN file from the compatibility mode archive : get the "compatibility mode archive":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/downloads/Compatibility_Modes.7z, copy the PATCH file in the VMC directory of your problematic game then test the game. If the compatibility mode doesn't solve any problem in your game, delete the PATCH file from the VMC directory and redo the operations with the next PATCH file.
* using a CHEATS.TXT file : see the "cheat engine":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/cheat-engine section to know how to enable a mode using the cheat engine.
* hardcoding the mode in POPStarter (advanced) : see "POPStarter configuration table":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/configuration-table.

______________________________________________________________________________________________________________

h2. _Game fixes (manual) :_ 

In the "game fixes archive":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/downloads/Game_Fixes.7z, you can find some TROJAN files fixing problematic games. Copy the file in the VMC directory of your problematic game.

*List of game fixes :* 

* 007 - Demain Ne Meurt Jamais (SLES-02375) - AntiCrash Fix
* 007 - Der Morgen Stirbt Nie (SLES-02376) - AntiCrash Fix
* 007 - Tomorrow Never Dies (SLES-01324) - AntiCrash Fix
* 007 - Tomorrow Never Dies (SLPS-02604) - AntiCrash Fix
* 007 - Tomorrow Never Dies (SLUS-00975) - AntiCrash Fix
* Casper (SLES-00045) - LoadinFix
* Casper (SLUS-00162) - LoadinFix
* Crash Bandicoot Racing (SCPS-10118) - LoadinFix
* Crash Team Racing (SCUS-94426) - Boot Fix
* CTR - Crash Team Racing (SCES-02105) - Boot Fix
* Destruction Derby 2 (SCUS-94350) - AntiCrash Fix
* Destruction Derby 2 (SIPS-60012)  - AntiCrash Fix
* Destruction Derby 2 (SLES-00299)  - AntiCrash Fix
* Future Racer (SLES-03508) - "Boost" Fix + mode 0x04
* Harry Potter And The Chamber Of Secrets (SLES-03972) - AntiCrash Fix
* Harry Potter And The Chamber Of Secrets (SLES-03973) - AntiCrash Fix
* Harry Potter And The Chamber Of Secrets (SLES-03974) - AntiCrash Fix
* Harry Potter And The Chamber Of Secrets (SLUS-01503) - AntiCrash Fix
* Harry Potter And The Philosopher's Stone (SLES-03662) - AntiCrash Fix
* Harry Potter And The Philosopher's Stone (SLES-03663) - AntiCrash Fix
* Harry Potter And The Philosopher's Stone (SLES-03664) - AntiCrash Fix
* Harry Potter And The Philosopher's Stone (SLES-03665) - AntiCrash Fix
* Harry Potter And The Sorcerer's Stone (SLUS-01415) - AntiCrash Fix
* Harry Potter To Kenja No Ishi (SLPS-03355) - AntiCrash Fix
* Metal Gear Solid (Disc 1) (SLES-01370) - Skip problematic CutScenes
* Metal Gear Solid (Disc 1) (SLES-01506) - Skip problematic CutScenes
* Metal Gear Solid (Disc 1) (SLES-01507) - Skip problematic CutScenes
* Metal Gear Solid (Disc 1) (SLES-01508) - Skip problematic CutScenes
* Metal Gear Solid (Disc 1) (SLES-01734) - Skip problematic CutScenes
* Metal Gear Solid (Disc 1) (SLPM-86111) - Skip problematic CutScenes
* Metal Gear Solid v1.0 (Disc 1) (SLUS-00594) - Skip problematic CutScenes
* Metal Gear Solid v1.1 (Disc 1) (SLUS-00594) - Skip problematic CutScenes
* Roadsters (SLES-02326) - AntiCrash Fix
* Roadsters (SLUS-01024)  - AntiCrash Fix
* Tomb Raider (PAL Retail) - SkipVSync
* Tomb Raider (SLUS-00152) - SkipVSync
* Tomb Raider 2 (SLPS-01200) - SkipVSync
* Tomb Raider II - Starring Lara Croft (Beta 1997-09-30) - SkipVSync
* Tomb Raider II - Starring Lara Croft (PAL Retail) - SkipVSync 
* Tomb Raider II - Starring Lara Croft v1.0 (SLUS-00437) - SkipVSync
* Tomb Raiders (SLPS-00617) - SkipVSync
* WipEout (SCUS-94301) - AntiCrash Fix
* WipEout (SIPS-60003)  - AntiCrash Fix
* WipEout v1.0 (SCES-00010)  - AntiCrash Fix 
* WipEout v1.1 (SCES-00010)  - AntiCrash Fix

______________________________________________________________________________________________________________

h2. _Automated fixes :_ 

A list of all the LC cracks, crash fixes & compatibility modes integrated into POPStarter can be found "here":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/automated. You don't need to enable them/do something to get them enabled, as POPStarter will detect your game and apply the matching fix all by itself.


______________________________________________________________________________________________________________

h1. "*Home*":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/Home