h1. _Toolbox/CUE2POPS Changelogs :_ 



h2. _Toolbox :_ 

*2014/10/19 - v1.0*

pre. 
Initial release (undocumented)


______________________________________________________________________________________________________________

h2. _CUE2POPS (standalone versions) :_ 

*2016/07/23 - v2.2*

pre. 
Not documented.



*2013/05/16 - v2.0*

pre. 
+ Fixed : dumpsize not known / daTrack_ptr set to zero when running a non-debug build
+ Fixed : False-positive Y-Pos pattern detections
+ Fixed : Incorrect Track Type in the descriptor A2
+ Blocked non-MODE2/2352 dumps
+ The NTSCpatcher console output is no longer restricted to the DEBUG build
+ Introduced the title identification system
+ Introduced NTSC Patcher exceptions (deny_vmode), for Crash Bandicoot [SCES-00344]
+ Added the Y-Pos fix for PAL VMODE
+ Introduced game cheats (command "trainer"), for Crash Bandicoot NTSC J, NTSC U/C and PAL
+ Introduced game fixes (automatic), for MGS Special Missions [SLES-02136]
+ Pregap correctors (gap++, gap-- and the unconditional one) were rewritten
+ The CUE2POPS version identifier is now 0x20


*2013/04/22 - v1.2*

pre. 
+ Fixed : dumpsize not known / daTrack_ptr set to zero when trying to patch a single track game to NTSC
+ The CUE2POPS version identifier is now 0x02


*2013/04/19 - v1.1*

pre. 
+ A bit of sanitization
+ Fixed : the INDEX 01 of TRACK 01 = 00:02:00 (mistakenly marked as 00:00:00 in the previous build, without a pregap)
+ Now adds 2 seconds to all tracks unconditionally
+ Writes a CUE2POPS version identifier in the POPS header, for interaction with POPStarter Revision 10


*2013/04/06 - v1.0*

pre. 
Initial release





______________________________________________________________________________________________________________

h1. "*Back*":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/Home