h1. *General note :*



______________________________________________________________________________________________________________



POPStarter is able to handle external files, so you can configure its settings, even though POPStarter is a GUI-less app. These external files come as TROJAN#BIN, PATCH#.BIN, BIOS.BIN, OSD.BIN, CHEATS.TXT, VMCDIR.TXT, DISCS.TXT...
These files can be placed into 2 different locations : POPS folder and VMC folder. 

As general rule :
 
* If a TROJAN#BIN, PATCH#.BIN, BIOS.BIN, OSD.BIN, CHEATS.TXT, VMC.DIR, WHATEVER... is placed into POPS folder, it will be applied to ALL games;
* If a TROJAN#BIN, PATCH#.BIN, BIOS.BIN, OSD.BIN, CHEATS.TXT, VMC.DIR, WHATEVER... is placed into the game VMC folder, it will be applied to only this particular game;
* POPStarter can handle multiple different external files at the same time;
* POPStarter can handle multiple different external files at the same time from different locations;

Example : 

pre. 
/POPS/PATCH1.BIN
/POPS/Crash Bandicoot/CHEATS.TXT

Here, PATCH1.BIN will be applied to all games while the CHEATS.TXT file will be only applied/active for Crash Bandicoot game.

* When you use multiple external files *of same type* from both POPS folder and VMC game folder, the file which is in the VMC folder has priority;

Example : 

pre. 
/POPS/TROJAN2.BIN
/POPS/Crash Bandicoot/TROJAN2.BIN

Here, only POPS/Crash Bandicoot/TROJAN2.BIN will be applied.

* Only exception to this rule is when 2 CHEATS.TXT files are loaded from POPS and VMC game folder at the same time and that CHEATS.TXT file contains special cheats changing the video mode.

pre. 
/POPS/CHEATS.TXT with $480p written in it
/POPS/Crash Bandicoot/CHEATS.TXT with $FORCEPAL written in it

Here, 480p has priority and $FORCEPAL will not be applied.

______________________________________________________________________________________________________________


h3. "*Index*":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/index