h1. *POPStarter for internal HDD*


______________________________________________________________________________________________________________
_[Up-to-date with WIP 06, OBT 14]_

h2. _POPS decrypted files :_

To use POPStarter with an internal HDD, you have to find and download the POPS decrypted files. These files are named "POPS.ELF" and "IOPRP252.IMG"... You are on your own to find them (google is your friend ;) )


| *File name* | *MD5* | *Description* | *Location* |
| POPS.ELF | 355a892a8ce4e4a105469d4ef6f39a42 | main SLBB-00001 ELF, decrypted | __common/POPS/ |
| IOPRP252.IMG | 1db9c6020a2cd445a7bb176a1a3dd418 | can be found in some retail game discs and $CEI SDKs too | __common/POPS/ |

h2. _Other Software Requirements :_

* A software that allows you to convert your disc images to the POPS virtual CDROM format (such as "ToolBox":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/downloads/ToolBox.zip )
* A software that allows you to manage/create partitions in your PS2 HDD (such as AKuHAK's uLaunchELF build or "uLE_kHn build":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/downloads/uLE_kHn_20150727.zip)
* A software that allows you to copy the decrypted POPS files to the __common partition of your PS2 HDD (such as AKuHAK's uLaunchELF build or "uLE_kHn build":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/downloads/uLE_kHn_20150727.zip)
* A software that allows you to transfer the converted disc images to your PS2 HDD (such as "PFSshell":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/Pfsshell, or "uLaunchELF":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/downloads/uLE_kHn_20150727.zip and "RadHostClient":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/RadHostClient...)
* A PS2 software that allows you to execute the POPStarter ELFs (such as "uLaunchELF":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/downloads/uLE_kHn_20150727.zip, or "Free Harddisk Drive Boot":http://ichiba.geocities.jp/ysai187/PS2/FMCB/...) or a GUI to execute POPSTARTER.ELF by selecting the VCDs (such as "uLE_kHn_20150727":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/downloads/uLE_kHn_20150727.zip)

h2. _Hardware Requirements :_

* A PS2 console which is able to run PS2 unsigned code
* A network adapter with/or a HDD interface
* A PS2-formatted HDD that fits your network adapter/HDD interface

______________________________________________________________________________________________________________

h2. _A) Installing the Emulator :_

# Find and download the decrypted emulator files;
# Create a directory named "POPS" in the "__common" partition of your PS2 HDD;
# Paste POPS.ELF and IOPRP252.IMG into the "POPS" directory you've just created.

h2. _B) Installing your PS1 Games :_ 

# Convert your BIN/CUE disc images to .VCD files using the latest stable version of Toolbox;
# Create a partition named "__.POPS" in your PS2 HDD, large enough so you can put all your VCDs inside.

* *Note :* +__.POPS is not correct. Use AKuHAK's uLaunchELF build or "uLE_kHn build":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/downloads/uLE_kHn_20150727.zip to create partition without +.

h2. _C) Installing POPStarter :_ 

# Rename the POPStarter ELF as the name of your VCDs, replace the .VCD extension with a .elf extension;[example : for running a VCD named "Gran Turismo.VCD", the POPStarter ELF must be renamed as "Gran Turismo.elf"]
# Copy or leave the ELFs where you want to run them from.

h2. _Examples of Setups :_ 

 

pre. 
=== INTERNAL HDD, NEW LAUNCH TYPE ===
__common/POPS/IOPRP252.IMG
__common/POPS/POPS.ELF
__.POPS/Crash Bandicoot.VCD
__sysconf/FMCB/Crash Bandicoot.elf




pre. 
=== INTERNAL HDD, OLD LAUNCH TYPE (HIDDEN PARTITION) ===
__common/POPS/IOPRP252.IMG
__common/POPS/POPS.ELF
__.Crash_Bandicoot/IMAGE0.VCD
__sysconf/FMCB/__.Crash Bandicoot.elf




pre. 
=== INTERNAL HDD, OLD LAUNCH TYPE (HDDOSD COMPATIBLE) ===
__common/POPS/IOPRP252.IMG
__common/POPS/POPS.ELF
PP.Crash_Bandicoot/EXECUTE.KELF
PP.Crash_Bandicoot/IMAGE0.VCD

______________________________________________________________________________________________________________

h2. _POPSTARTER.KELF :_ 

POPStarter bundle comes with a POPSTARTER.KELF (Krypo-ELF = ELF embedded into a container). It can be used if you have the Browser 2.00 (aka HDDOSD) installed on your HDD. Otherwise, it's useless. Use "AKuHAK's hdl_dumx":https://bitbucket.org/AKuHAK/hdl-dump/downloads to install it.

*Notes if you use the POPStarter.KELF :* 
* Partition name prefix is of course PP. (PPdot)
* 1 partition = 1 game

______________________________________________________________________________________________________________

h2. _HDD Launch types :_ 

HDD supports 3 "launch types". The "launch type" relies on the prefix you put to your ELF names. Each type uses his own way to name the VCD file : 

|  | *Old launch type* | *Alternate Old type* | *New launch type* |
| *HDDOSD compatible* | Yes | No | No |
| *Partition shown in the HDDOSD/PSBBN/PSX XMB* | Yes | No | - |
| *Prefix for POPStarter.ELF* | PP. (if used) | __. | No prefix |
| *Prefix for partition name* | PP. | __. | __.POPS or __.POPS# |
| *Game name* | IMAGE0.VCD (all uppercase) | IMAGE0.VCD (all uppercase) | Name of the Game.VCD |
| *Examples* | (1) | (2) | (3) |
| *Description* | Launch type that was used in POPStarter 12 and older. Allows to install one VCD per partition. | Launch type that was used in POPStarter 12 and older. Allows to install one VCD per partition. | Launch type introduced in POPStarter 13 WIP 01. Allows to put multiple VCDs in a single partition. |
 
*Examples :* 

(1) With the POPStarter ELF renamed as PP.SomeGame.elf, POPStarter will launch IMAGE0.VCD which is in the partition named PP.SomeGame.

(2) With the POPStarter ELF renamed as __.SomeGame.elf, POPStarter will launch IMAGE0.VCD which is in the partition named __.SomeGame.

(3) With the POPStarter ELF renamed as Some Game.elf, POPStarter will launch Some Game.VCD which is in the partition named __.POPS or __.POPS0 or __.POPS1... up to __.POPS9.

______________________________________________________________________________________________________________

h2. _Additional notes :_


* The internal HDD has to be PS2 formatted. If you need to format it, I'd recommend you use the latest WIP version of AKuHAK's uLaunchELF HDD edition.
* The partition names are case sensitive, and have to match the POPStarter ELF names.
* The third character of the ELF prefix (when used) is a dot (PPdot / __dot ).
* The prefix (when used) has to be uppercase.
* The file extension .VCD has to be uppercase.
* Whitespaces are not allowed in the partition names (for old launch types). 

______________________________________________________________________________________________________________

h2. _Related stuff :_ 

You may want to give a look at this : 

* [EXE] "POPStarter BATCHER v0.2":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/popstarter_batcher
* [HDD] "Transfer VCD files using PFSSHELL 0.2a":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/Pfsshell 
* [HDD] "Transfer VCD files over network using RadHostClient":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/RadHostClient


______________________________________________________________________________________________________________

h1. "*Back*":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/Home