h1. *POPStarter for internal HDD*


______________________________________________________________________________________________________________

h2. _Requirements :_

* *POPS decrypted files :* 

To use POPStarter with an internal HDD, you have to find and download the POPS decrypted files. These files are named "POPS.ELF" and "IOPRP252.IMG"...

| *File name* | *MD5* | *Description* |
| POPS.ELF | 355a892a8ce4e4a105469d4ef6f39a42 | main SLBB-00001 ELF, decrypted |
| IOPRP252.IMG | 1db9c6020a2cd445a7bb176a1a3dd418 | can be found in some retail game discs and $CEI SDKs too |

* *Other Software Requirements :* 

. A software that allows you to convert your disc images to the POPS virtual CDROM format (such as "CUE2POPS":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/apps-last-version)
. A software that allows you to manage/create partitions in your PS2 HDD (such as "AKuHAK's uLaunchELF build":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/related-stuff or "uLE_kHn build":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/apps-last-version)
. A software that allows you to copy the decrypted POPS files to the __common partition of your PS2 HDD (such as "AKuHAK's uLaunchELF build":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/related-stuff or "uLE_kHn build":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/apps-last-version)
. A software that allows you to transfer the converted disc images to your PS2 HDD (such as "PFSshell":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/related-stuff, or "uLaunchELF":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/apps-last-version and "RadHostClient":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/related-stuff)
. A PS2 software that allows you to execute the POPStarter ELFs (such as "uLaunchELF":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/apps-last-version, or "Free Harddisk Drive Boot":http://ichiba.geocities.jp/ysai187/PS2/FMCB/) or a GUI to execute POPSTARTER.ELF by selecting the VCDs (such as "uLE_kHn":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/apps-last-version )

* *Hardware Requirements :* 

. A PS2 console which is able to run PS2 unsigned code;
. A network adapter with/or a HDD interface;
. A PS2-formatted HDD that fits your network adapter/HDD interface.

______________________________________________________________________________________________________________

h2. _Installation :_

* *a) Installing the Emulator :*

1. Find and download the decrypted emulator files;
2. Create a directory named "POPS" in the "__common" partition of your PS2 HDD;
3. Paste POPS.ELF and IOPRP252.IMG into the "POPS" directory you've just created.

* *b) Installing your PS1 Games :*

1. Convert your BIN/CUE disc images to .VCD files using the latest stable version of CUE2POPS;
2. Create a partition named "__.POPS" in your PS2 HDD, large enough so you can put all your VCDs inside. 
Note : +__.POPS is not correct. Use "AKuHAK's uLaunchELF build":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/related-stuff or "uLE_kHn build":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/apps-last-version to create a partition without +.

* *c) Installing POPStarter :*

1. Rename the POPStarter ELF as the name of your VCDs, replace the .VCD extension with a .elf extension [example : for running a VCD named "Gran Turismo.VCD", the POPStarter ELF must be renamed as "Gran Turismo.elf"] ;
2. Copy or leave the ELFs where you want to run them from.
3. Enjoy !

______________________________________________________________________________________________________________

h2. _Example of Setup :_ 

pre. 
=== INTERNAL HDD, NEW LAUNCH TYPE ===
__common/POPS/IOPRP252.IMG
__common/POPS/POPS.ELF
__.POPS/Crash Bandicoot.VCD
__sysconf/FMCB/Crash Bandicoot.elf

______________________________________________________________________________________________________________

h2. _POPSTARTER.KELF :_ 

POPStarter bundle comes with a file named POPSTARTER.KELF (KELF = Krypo-ELF = ELF embedded into a container). It can be used if you have SONY Browser 2.00 (aka HDDOSD) installed on your HDD. Otherwise, it's useless. 

*Notes if you use the POPStarter.KELF :* 
* Partition name prefix is of course PP. (PP(dot)) ;
* 1 partition = 1 game - you can't install several games into a single partition (unless it's a multi-disc game).

Read "here":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/popstarter-hddosd for a guide about how to set it up.

______________________________________________________________________________________________________________

h2. _HDD Launch types (advanced) :_ 

HDD supports 3 "launch types". The "launch type" relies on the prefix of your ELF names. Each type uses his own way to name the VCD file : 

|  | *Old launch type* | *Alternate old launch type* | *New launch type* |
| *HDDOSD compatible* | Yes | No | No |
| *Partition shown in the HDDOSD/PSBBN/PSX XMB* | Yes | No | - |
| *Prefix for POPStarter.ELF* | PP. (if used) | __. | No prefix |
| *Prefix for partition name* | PP. | __. | __.POPS or __.POPS# |
| *Game name* | IMAGE0.VCD (all uppercase) | IMAGE0.VCD (all uppercase) | Name of the Game.VCD |
| *Examples* | (1) | (2) | (3) |
| *Description* | Launch type that was used in POPStarter 12 and older. Allows to install one VCD per partition. | Launch type that was used in POPStarter 12 and older. Allows to install one VCD per partition. | Launch type introduced in POPStarter 13 WIP 01. Allows to put multiple VCDs in a single partition. |
 
*Examples :* 

(1) With the POPStarter ELF renamed as PP.SomeGame.elf, POPStarter will launch IMAGE0.VCD which is in the partition named PP.SomeGame.

(2) With the POPStarter ELF renamed as __.SomeGame.elf, POPStarter will launch IMAGE0.VCD which is in the partition named __.SomeGame.

(3) With the POPStarter ELF renamed as Some Game.elf, POPStarter will launch Some Game.VCD which is in the partition named __.POPS or __.POPS0 or __.POPS1... up to __.POPS9.

*Examples of Setups :*

pre. 
=== INTERNAL HDD, OLD LAUNCH TYPE (HDDOSD COMPATIBLE) ===
__common/POPS/IOPRP252.IMG
__common/POPS/POPS.ELF
PP.Crash_Bandicoot/EXECUTE.KELF
PP.Crash_Bandicoot/IMAGE0.VCD

pre. 
=== INTERNAL HDD, ALTERNATE OLD LAUNCH TYPE (HIDDEN PARTITION) ===
__common/POPS/IOPRP252.IMG
__common/POPS/POPS.ELF
__.Crash_Bandicoot/IMAGE0.VCD
__sysconf/FMCB/__.Crash Bandicoot.elf

pre. 
=== INTERNAL HDD, NEW LAUNCH TYPE ===
__common/POPS/IOPRP252.IMG
__common/POPS/POPS.ELF
__.POPS/Crash Bandicoot.VCD
__sysconf/FMCB/Crash Bandicoot.elf

______________________________________________________________________________________________________________

h2. _Additional notes :_


* The internal HDD has to be PS2 formatted. If you need to format it, use the latest WIP version of AKuHAK's uLaunchELF HDD edition.
* The partition names are case sensitive, and have to match the POPStarter ELF names.
* The third character of the ELF prefix (when used) is a dot (PPdot / __dot ).
* The prefix (when used) has to be uppercase.
* The file extension .VCD has to be uppercase.
* Whitespaces are not allowed in the partition names (for old launch types). 

______________________________________________________________________________________________________________

h2. _Related stuff :_ 

You may want to give a look at this : 

* [HDD] "Transfer VCD files using PFSSHELL 0.2a":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/pfsshell 
* [HDD] "Transfer VCD files over network using RadHostClient":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/radhostclient


______________________________________________________________________________________________________________

h1. "*Home*":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/Home