h1. *Introduction to POPStarter rev13 - unofficial documentation*


______________________________________________________________________________________________________________
_*[ Up-to-date with OBT15 ]*_


h2. _Disclaimer :_ 

POPStarter is a launcher which lets you play your PS1 games in combination with $ony's PS1 emulator for PS2 (known as "POPS" or "SLBB-00001"). Unlike the previous POPStarter versions and the proofs of concept, POPStarter r13 does NOT contain the emulator itself or libraries that belong to $ony. It is safe to publish in forums/sites that don't tolerate warez stuff, as long as it's not repacked with the decrypted emulator files or things like a PS BIOS.

POPStarter is available for free download. If you spent an outrageous amount of money in ordering a HDD that contains preinstalled games and POPStarter, YOU HAVE BEEN ROBBED. Never purchase a physical copy of POPStarter when the "seller" wants more $$$ than the media price and the shipping fees.

______________________________________________________________________________________________________________

h2. _Downloads :_  

* *LATEST STABLE VERSION BUNDLE :* "POPStarter Revision 13, WIP 05 (2015/06/03)":http://aybabtu.chez.com/kHn/SOFTWARES/POPStarter_r13_WIP_05.zip
* *LATEST BETA VERSION BUNDLE :* "POPStarter Revision 13, WIP 06, OBT 15 (2016/09/18)":http://aybabtu.chez.com/kHn/SOFTWARES/POPStarter_r13_WIP_06_OBT_20160918.zip

_Changelog [WIP 06, OBT 15]_



pre. 
- The CD lid open/close emulation is now complete. It refreshes the TOC.
  I'm still unsure about the correctness of the CDROM status and mode field values that are used though.
  This feature pokes the CDROM registers according to the lid open/close state and issues a VCD init RPC call to the IOPCD driver. W00t.
- Disc change support, alongside the CD lid open/close emulation mentioned above.
  This feature uses a DISCS.TXT file handler and parser, and separate VCDs.
- Static SetGsCrt interlace parameter, to help with the HDTVs that can't deal with the interlaced resolutions thru component.
  At least it does work with my crappy led TV. Without it, the said crappy TV keeps displaying plain green screens and other rubbish.
- Added a GS DISPLAY1/DISPLAY2 value calculator to the unfinished ($ONY's) 480p mode of POPS. 480p output can be enabled with the command $480p in CHEATS.TXT.
  I haven't found a way to stretch the display area width (damn these black boarders). Some games (like Dead Or Alive) output an odd signal that make them UNPLAYABLE (monitor says "unsupported" hmm).
- Added a couple of CHEATS.TXT commands ($XPOS_decimal and $YPOS_decimal) to adjust the X/Y position in NTSC and PAL modes.
  Let's say the picture of your NTSC game is badly shifted on the right. Then write $XPOS_604 to your CHEATS.TXT file and check out the result.
- Bugfixes to the MODULE_#.IRX loader, the usbd.irx/usbhdfsd.irx loader and the CHEATS.TXT parser.
  Yelling the f-word three times.
- The MODULE_#.IRX loader scans the user's files and disables the modules with matching names from POPS.
  Kills the embedded SIO2MAN/PADMAN/LIBSD/SDRDRV/DEV9/ATAD/HDD/PFS drivers on purpose, so only yours stay resident and active.
- A multitap initialization function was added to the MODULE_#.IRX loader. It's invoked as soon as the user mtapman/freemtap driver is loaded.
  HAXing into the cold of the fog. Since I don't own a multitap, I cannot give it a try. Although, I'd bet it's useless and doesn't make it work.
- A game fix was added to make all the retail versions of Parasite Eve II run.
  ... it's missing sounds. BGMs or SFX or both... Haven't played it in depth...
- A game fix was added to make the PAL version of Spyro 2 run.
  ... still crashes loading certain levels and the demo mode, like POPS is going crazy with the LibCrypt crapola.




______________________________________________________________________________________________________________

h2. _Official Thread :_ 

* [PS2] POPS stuff... @"ASSEMblergames":http://assemblergames.com/l/threads/ps2-pops-stuff.45347/


______________________________________________________________________________________________________________

h2. _Features :_ 

* "PSX DVR":https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PSX_%28video_game_console%29 support
* HDD, USB & SMB support
* High compatibility rate (around 75%/80%)
* CDDA tracks support
* VMC support
* Automatic PAL patcher for PAL games
* Embedded cheat engine
* In-Game-Reset support
* 480p support (NOT reliable ATM)
* Multi-disc support
* BIOS & OSD handlers
* Analog and vibration support
 


 
______________________________________________________________________________________________________________

h2. _Wiki Table of content :_ 



"*1.  Convert your PS1 games to VCD format*":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/VCD
* "VCD creation":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/VCD
* "Toolbox commands (advanced)":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/Toolbox%20commands

"*2.  POPStarter for internal HDD*":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/HDD%20mode

"*3.  POPStarter for USB device storage type*":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/USB%20mode

"*4.  POPStarter for SMB*":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/SMB%20mode

"*5.  Game Compatibility*":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/Game%20Compatibility
* "Compatibility rates":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/Game%20Compatibility
* "Compatibility Lists and Forms":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/Game%20Compatibility
* "Compatibility Modes":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/Game%20Compatibility
* "Game fixes":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/Game%20Compatibility
* "Automated fixes":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/Game%20Compatibility


"*6.  Features and settings*":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/Features
* "General note":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/Features
* "Virtual Memory Cards":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/VMC
* "Hotkeys":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/Hotkeys
* "Cheat Engine":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/Cheat%20Engine
* "In-Game Reset":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/IGR
* "Multi-disc support feature":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/multi_disc
* "BIOS & OSD Handler":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/BIOS%20OSD
* "Debug Mode":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/debug_mode
* "uLE_kHn":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/uLE_kHn
* "Advanced Settings":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/POPStarter%20Configuration%20Table

*7. Help*
* "POPStarter Help":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/Help
* "FAQ":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/FAQs%20
* "Known bugs":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/Known%20bugs

*8. About POPStarter & POPS*
* "POPStarter changelog":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/Changelog
* "Toolbox/CUE2POPS changelog":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/CUE2POPS_Toolbox%20changelogs
* "POPS' History":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/History

"*9. Downloads*":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/downloads
* "Apps last version – download links":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/apps_last

"*10. Related stuff...*":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/Related%20Stuff

* "Softwares":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/Related%20Stuff 
* "Threads – POPStarter around the web":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/Related%20Stuff
* "Guides/informations :":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/Guides 

.......... [HDD] "Transfer VCD files using PFSSHELL 0.2a":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/Pfsshell .
.......... [HDD] "Transfer VCD files over network using RadHostClient":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/RadHostClient .
.......... [COMPATIBILITY] "Troubleshooting games":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/Troubleshooting%20games
.......... [VMC] "Use your PS1 MC saves with POPStarter":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/PS1%20MC%20saves%20to%20VMC 
.......... [VMC] "Use your VMC saves on a PS1 retail console":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/VMC%20to%20PS1%20MC%20 
.......... [IGR] "Make your own IGR textures":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/IGR%20textures
.......... [SPECIAL DEVICE] "Use your [special device] with POPS":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/Special%20devices
.......... [CHEATS] "Widescreen Codes Archive":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/WS%20codes
.......... [EXE] "POPStarter BATCHER v0.2":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/popstarter_batcher





______________________________________________________________________________________________________________

h2. _Need help ?_ 

Ask over at "ASSEMblergames":http://assemblergames.com/l/threads/ps2-pops-stuff.45347/ or at "psx-scene":http://psx-scene.com/forums/f19/popstarter-wiki-155496/. Be sure to run POPStarter in "debug mode":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/debug_mode before.


______________________________________________________________________________________________________________
_Original documentation : krHACKen - updated by ShaolinAssassin_
