h1. *Change disc feature*

______________________________________________________________________________________________________________


h2. _How to use it :_

Since OBT 15, POPStarter has a change-disc feature, that let you play multi-disc easily. 

1. Create a DISCS.TXT text file containing the file names of your VCDs, one file name per line (with VCD extension) ;

pre. 
.DISCS.TXT line 1 = disc 1
.DISCS.TXT line 2 = disc 2
.DISCS.TXT line 3 = disc 3
.DISCS.TXT line 4 = disc 4


2. Copy this DISCS.TXT file to the VMC folders of all your game discs ;
3. When required by the game, open the lid using the hotkey ;
4. Insert the disc you want to load using the hotkey ;
5. Close the lid using the hotkey.

Hotkeys are :

* Select+L2+R2+Triangle to open the lid.
* Select+L2+R2+Up to insert Disc 1 (DISCS.TXT line 1).
* Select+L2+R2+Right to insert Disc 2 (DISCS.TXT line 2).
* Select+L2+R2+Down to insert Disc 3 (DISCS.TXT line 3).
* Select+L2+R2+Left to insert Disc 4 (DISCS.TXT line 4).
* Select+L2+R2+Square to close the lid.

Limitations are :

* Up to 4 file names in DISCS.TXT.
* A file name must not exceed 89 characters.
* The VCD files have to be in the same partition/folder.

*Example of working setup :*

pre. 
mass:/POPS/MGS_CD1.VCD   
mass:/POPS/MGS_CD2.VCD
mass:/POPS/XX.MGS_CD1.ELF
mass:/POPS/XX.MGS_CD2.ELF
mass:/POPS/MGS_CD1/DISCS.TXT
mass:/POPS/MGS_CD1/SLOT0.VMC
mass:/POPS/MGS_CD1/SLOT1.VMC
mass:/POPS/MGS_CD2/DISCS.TXT
mass:/POPS/MGS_CD2/SLOT0.VMC
mass:/POPS/MGS_CD2/SLOT1.VMC

In both DISCS.TXT files, you had to write : 

pre. 
MGS_CD1.VCD
MGS_CD2.VCD

*Note :* keep in mind that the change disc feature is useful only if you must swap discs *without any PS1 reboot*. 
Game like Grandia asks you to reboot to be able to load disc 2. In this situation, you only need to swap the VMCs manually (copy/paste VMCs from VMC disc 2 folder to VMC disc 2 folder) - or you can use the "trick below" to avoid such a manipulation.

______________________________________________________________________________________________________________


h2. _Use a single pair of VMCs for multi-disc games :_

You can use the VMCDIR.TXT file to use only 1 pair of VMCs for a multi-disc game.

*Example :*

pre. 
mass:/POPS/MGS.VCD
mass:/POPS/MGS_2.VCD
mass:/POPS/XX.MGS.ELF
mass:/POPS/MGS/DISCS.TXT
mass:/POPS/MGS/VMCDIR.TXT
mass:/POPS/MGS/SLOT0.VMC
mass:/POPS/MGS/SLOT1.VMC

In DISCS.TXT, you had to write : 

pre. 
MGS.VCD
MGS_2.VCD

In VMCDIR.TXT, you had to write : 

pre. 
MGS

In this situation, disc 1 and disc 2 share the same VMC folder.

______________________________________________________________________________________________________________

h1. "*Back*":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/Home