h1. [HISTORY] *POC2/POPS-00001*


______________________________________________________________________________________________________________

* *WARNING :* This tutorial is *OBSOLETE* & for *HISTORY PURPOSE ONLY*

______________________________________________________________________________________________________________



POPS-00001 is the second proof-of-concept (POC2) showing how it is possible to run non-Sony code using the PS1 emulator embedded into the PSBBN Demo Game ビシバシスペシャル3 (Bishi Bashi Stepchamp 3). It was realeased on a private Russian w@rez forum on 01/22/2013, just a few days after conan14 figured out how to to change the 2nd mounth path of the virtual drive, allowing the use of unauthorized dumps from commercial games. 

POC2/POPS-00001 was a demonstration test, showing all the potential of the decrypted emulator from Sony. Unfortunately, it had been leaked with detailled instructions from PMs about how to use it on a well known w@rez website, bundled with an *experimental* 48 Bit HDDOSD and hexedited/raped by the www, causing the abortion of the project that were secretely elaborated after conan14's finding. On 07/02/2013, it was announced on psx-scene : "NEWS: Sony's official PSX emulator for PS2 HDD leaked (POPS-00001)". 

Contrary to what had been told, POPS-00001 isnt the emulator itself, it's a loader which has POPS inside. The "famous" 3,3MB EXECUTE.ELF was made of a homebrew launcher + the POPS ELF + the POPS IOPRP.

Original POPS-00001 content : 

pre. 
- PP.POPS-00001/disc/disc0
- PP.POPS-00001/EXECUTE.ELF
- PP.POPS-00001/EXECUTE.KELF
- PP.POPS-00001/MYDUMP.BIN
- PP.POPS-00001/ALIEN_LOOTER.ELF
- PP.POPS-00001/BLITTER_BOY_ALPHA.ELF
- PP.POPS-00001/HAUNTED_MAZE.ELF
- PP.POPS-00001/HIPOWER_BATTLERS.ELF
- PP.POPS-00001/PUSHY2B.ELF
- PP.POPS-00001/ROLLER.ELF
- PP.POPS-00001/YAROZE_RALLY.ELF
- PP.POPS-00001/ALIEN_LOOTER.KELF
- PP.POPS-00001/BLITTER_BOY_ALPHA.KELF
- PP.POPS-00001/HAUNTED_MAZE.KELF
- PP.POPS-00001/HIPOWER_BATTLERS.KELF
- PP.POPS-00001/PUSHY2B.KELF
- PP.POPS-00001/ROLLER.KELF
- PP.POPS-00001/YAROZE_RALLY.KELF
- PATINFO.KELF

POPS-00001 limitations : 
- name of the partition was harcoded into EXECUTE.ELF at offset 3B95h;
- it was 24 Bit limited;
- it required a so call "POPS header" taken from disc0 (which is Bishi Bashi demo) to be applied to the dump game;
- it also required to change the region sectors of the PAL & NTSC-U dump games, since it was NTSC-J limited (tho that were a workaround : using an EXECUTE.ELF with an injected region free BIOS inside - the so called "EXECUTE_POPS-PSP-660_BIOS_.ELF").

POPS-00001/POC2 wasnt end-user friendly and required a lot of hexediting.

______________________________________________________________________________________________________________


h2. _Hardware Requirements :_ 

* PS2 HDD formatted

h2. _Software Requirements :_ 

* uLE_ev
* HxD hexeditor


______________________________________________________________________________________________________________






______________________________________________________________________________________________________________

h1. "*Back*":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/Home