h1. [PS1 devices] *Use your [special device : light gun...] with POPS*


______________________________________________________________________________________________________________
_[Original tutorial by AKuHAK]_ "@ASSEMblergames":https://assemblergames.com/threads/ps2-pops-stuff.45347/page-56#post-794781


*1.* Find a PS2 game that supports your special device and look inside its content;

*2.* Look for some IRX files;

*3.* First file that you need is SIO2MAN.IRX. You need this module for making other modules working;

*4.* Copy it into POPS folder and rename as MODULE_0.IRX;

*5.* Then search for your specific IRX files. It can be one file or multiple files. For light gun, it might be USBD.IRX and USBGUN.IRX;

*6.* Rename them as MODULE_1.IRX, MODULE_2.IRX, ... etc. You have to experiment to find the correct order. For light gun, first .IRX might be USBD.IRX and second .IRX USBGUN.IRX;

*7.* Copy these files into POPS folder and run your game. If you got special device to work - have fun! 

*8.* If you have no luck - you can copy specific IOPRPxxx.IMG from your game into POPS folder and rename it as IOPRP252.IMG. In such way, you have to delete POPS.PAK and use only POPS.ELF + IOPRP252.IMG.

*9.* If it still doesnt work, you can also try to add more modules from your game (repeat 6th step) or you can try to change modules order. 

*Notes :*
* Don't forget that USB devices may not work if you use POPS in USB mode. 
* These manipulations doesn't mean that you will be able to use all special functions. It only means that your device will be recognized properly (so all standard functions will work). 



______________________________________________________________________________________________________________

h3. "*Index*":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/index