h1. *PS1 CD mode*


______________________________________________________________________________________________________________


PS1 CD mode is a native POPS feature. It lets you play your PS1 games (originals, backups and imports) from the CDVD drive. 

To use that mode, you must rename POPSTARTER.ELF file using the name you want, as long as there is no VCD (or partition) with such a name in your setup (you can use a generic name, such as (##.)PS1CD.ELF). 
It saves VMCs to the device according to the ELF prefix. PS1CD.ELF will save into __common/POPS/PS1CD/SLOT#.VMC, XX.PS1CD.ELF will save into mass:/POPS/PS1CD/SLOT#.VMC and SB.PS1CD.ELF will save into smb:/POPS/PS1CD/SLOT#.VMC. 


* *Example playing MGS original disc and make saves into the internal HDD :*

1. Rename POPSTARTER.ELF as "Metal Gear Solid.ELF" (without quotes) (Metal Gear Solid.VCD does not exist in __.POPS#) ;
2. Insert your MGS in the CDVD drive ; 
3. Launch Metal Gear Solid (PAL).ELF ;
4. MGS should start. When you make a save, it will be stored into __common/POPS/Metal Gear Solid/SLOT#.VMC. You can store external files such as CHEATS.TXT etc... in __common/POPS/Metal Gear Solid and they will be loaded from there. 

* *Example playing MGS original disc and make saves on your USB device :*

1. Rename POPSTARTER.ELF as "XX.Metal Gear Solid.ELF" (without quotes) (Metal Gear Solid.VCD does not exist in mass:/POPS#) ;
2. Insert your MGS in the CDVD drive ; 
3. Launch XX.Metal Gear Solid (PAL).ELF ;
4. MGS should start. When you make a save, it will be stored into mass:/POPS#/Metal Gear Solid/SLOT#.VMC. You can store external files such as CHEATS.TXT etc... in mass:/POPS#Metal Gear Solid and they will be loaded from there. 

* *Example playing MGS original disc and make saves on SMB :*

1. Rename POPSTARTER.ELF as "SB.Metal Gear Solid.ELF" (without quotes) (Metal Gear Solid.VCD does not exist in smb:/POPS) ;
2. Insert your MGS in the CDVD drive ; 
3. Launch SB.Metal Gear Solid (PAL).ELF ;
4. MGS should start. When you make a save, it will be stored into smb:/POPS/Metal Gear Solid/SLOT#.VMC. You can store external files such as CHEATS.TXT etc... in smb:/POPS/Metal Gear Solid and they will be loaded from there.

* *Backups and imports discs :* 

If you want to use a PS1 *import game disc* or a PS1 *backup disc*, you must perform the swap trick (run uLaunchELF, insert an original PS1 original disc - with an equal or bigger TOC than your import game disc/backup disc - then swap with your PS1 import game disc/backup disc) before launching POPSTARTER.ELF (renamed and prefixed). PS2CD and PS2CDDA disc types are accepted to perform the swap trick.

*Notes :*
. no CDDA tracks support in this mode (outputs some awful noises instead of the actual CDDA music/sound) ;
. if you use a multi discs game, use the "hotkeys":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/multi-disc to swap the discs ;
. we found out after RIP 06 release that the HDD old launch type method (PP.GAME.ELF or PP.PS1CD.ELF) "has a bug":https://assemblergames.com/threads/ps2-pops-stuff-popstarter.45347/page-112#post-952852 : files from __common/POPS folder (and from __common/POPS/GAME) will not be loaded.

______________________________________________________________________________________________________________


h3. "*Index*":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/index