h1. *Quick start guide for internal HDD :*

______________________________________________________________________________________________________________
_(updated ~ 2017/10/27)_

This is a step-by-step basic guide for new POPStarter users. If you are already familiar with POPStarter, you don’t need it. Quickstarter pack includes last POPStarter version (Rev 13 RIP 06).

* *Download :* "here":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/downloads/POPStarter_HDD_Quickstarter_Pack_20171027.7z

______________________________________________________________________________________________________________

h2. _Step-by-step :_

*a) Installing the emulator :*

Since POPS (the emulator) is copyrighted by SONY, it can not be redistributed with POPStarter. You have to find it. It's made of 2 files (for HDD mode). 

pre. 
POPS.ELF     - MD5 : 355a892a8ce4e4a105469d4ef6f39a42
IOPRP252.IMG - MD5 : 1db9c6020a2cd445a7bb176a1a3dd418

# Find and download POPS.ELF & IOPRP252.IMG ;
# Create a directory named POPS in the __common partition of your PS2 HDD ;
# Paste POPS.ELF and IOPRP252.IMG into the “POPS” directory you’ve just created.

*b) Installing your PS1 Games :*

POPStarter/POPS doesn’t support PS1 disc images as .iso – but only as .VCD.

# Create a disc image of your PS1 game as BIN/CUE ;
# Drag & drop your .cue file over CUE2POPS.EXE to convert your BIN/CUE disc image to VCD file (you can convert several games at once by running BULK_CUE2POPS.BAT) ;
# Create a partition named __.POPS in your PS2 HDD, large enough so you can put all your VCDs inside ; 
# Transfer your VCD files in __.POPS partition. The easiest & recommended method is using "RadHostClient":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/radhostclient.

*c) Installing POPStarter :*

# Rename the POPStarter ELF as the name of your VCDs, replace the .VCD extension with a .ELF extension (example : for running a VCD named “Crash Bandicoot.VCD”, the POPStarter ELF must be renamed as “Crash Bandicoot.ELF”) ;
# Copy the ELFs in __common/POPS.

Now, check your setup. It must be the same as this one :

pre. 
hdd:/__common/POPS/IOPRP252.IMG
hdd:/__common/POPS/POPS.ELF
hdd:/__common/POPS/GAME.ELF
hdd:/__.POPS/GAME.VCD

=> to launch your game, run GAME.ELF.

*Note :* tired of renaming tons of ELF files ? Put uLE_kHn_20160723/BOOT in mc0:/BOOT folder and put POPSTARTER.ELF (not renamed) in __common/POPS directory. This special uLE version can launch .VCD directly – just like you would do for any .ELF file.

pre. 
hdd:/__common/POPS/IOPRP252.IMG
hdd:/__common/POPS/POPS.ELF
hdd:/__common/POPS/POPSTARTER.ELF
hdd:/__.POPS/GAME.VCD
mc0:/BOOT/BOOT.ELF

Need help ? Ask over at "ASSEMblergames":https://assemblergames.com/threads/ps2-pops-stuff.45347/.
______________________________________________________________________________________________________________

h3. "*Wiki Homepage*":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/Home