h1. *Quick start guide for USB :*

______________________________________________________________________________________________________________
_[UPDATE 01-10-2016 – POPStarter version updated to OBT16]_

This is a step-by-step basic guide for new POPStarter users. If you are already familiar with POPStarter, you don’t need it.
Quickstarter pack includes last POPStarter BETA version [Rev 13 WIP 5 OBT 16] – which is now considered stable enough to be used as daily gaming version.

*Download : POPStarter_Quickstarter_Pack_SMB__2017_01_10*

______________________________________________________________________________________________________________

h2. _Step-by-step :_ 

*a) Installing the emulator :*

Since POPS (the emulator) is copyrighted by SONY, it can not be redistributed with POPStarter. You have to find it.
. 1 file for USB mode, POPS_IOX.PAK - MD5 : a625d0b3036823cdbf04a3c0e1648901

# Find and download POPS_IOX.PAK;
# Create a directory named POPS in the root of your USB device;
# Copy POPS_IOP.PAK into POPS directory you’ve just created.

*b) Installing your PS1 Games :*

POPStarter/POPS doesn’t support PS1 disc images as .iso – but only as .VCD.

# Create a disc image of your PS1 game as .BIN/.CUE;
# Drag & drop your .CUE file over CUE2POPS.EXE to convert your BIN/CUE disc image to .VCD file (you can convert several games at once by running BULK_CUE2POPS.BAT);
# Put your .VCD files in mass:/POPS directory.

*c) Installing POPStarter :*

# Put uLE_kHn.ELF in mass:/POPS directory. This special uLE version can launch .VCD directly;
# Put POPSTARTER.ELF in mass:/POPS directory.

Now, check your setup. It must be the same as this :

pre. 
mass:/POPS/POPS_IOP.PAK
mass:/POPS/POPSTARTER.ELF
mass:/POPS/GAME.VCD
mass:/POPS/uLE_kHn.ELF

=> to launch your game, run uLE_kHn.ELF, then launch GAME.VCD - just like you would do for any .ELF file.


****

*0.* Download quickstarter pack and extract it on your desktop ; 

*1.* Create a folder named "POPS" (without "") in the root of your USB drive and copy/paste PFS_WRAP.BIN in it ;
 
*2.* Find and download "POPS.PAK" file (google it, I can't/won't give it to you) and copy it into POPS folder ;

*3.* POPStarter/POPS doesn't support PS1 games images as .iso - but only as .VCD. First convert your PS1 games to .bin/.cue (using "ImgBurn":http://imgburn.com/ for example). Then copy your .bin/.cue into CUE2POPS folder (from quickstarter pack), and run the file named BULK_CUE2POPS.BAT. You can convert several games at once using BULK_CUE2POPS.BAT.

*4.* Copy your .VCD into "POPS" folder on your USB device ;

*5.* Rename POPStarter.ELF to XX.Name of your game.ELF (example : XX.Crash Bandicoot.ELF). The name of your ELF and the name of your VCD must be the same - it's case sensitive.

Incorrect : 

pre. 
XX.CRASH BANDICOOT.ELF
Crash_Bandicoot.VCD

Correct : 

pre. 
XX.CRASH BANDICOOT.ELF
CRASH BANDICOOT.VCD


*6.* Your setup must look like this : 

pre. 
mass:/POPS/POPS.PAK
mass:/POPS/PFS_WRAP.BIN
mass:/POPS/Crash Bandicoot.VCD
mass:/XX.Crash Bandicoot.elf

*7.* Plug your USB device into your PS2, run XX.Name of your game.ELF with uLE and enjoy.


______________________________________________________________________________________________________________

h3. "*Wiki Homepage*":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/Home