h1. *Quick start guide for SMB :*

______________________________________________________________________________________________________________

This is a step-by-step basic guide for new POPStarter users. If you are already familiar with POPStarter, you don’t need it.

Quickstarter pack includes last POPStarter BETA version [Rev 13 WIP 5 OBT 16] – which is now considered stable enough to be used as daily gaming version.

*Download : POPStarter_Quickstarter_Pack_SMB__2017_01_09*

______________________________________________________________________________________________________________

h2. Step-by-step : 

*a) Installing the emulator :*

Since POPS (the emulator) is copyrighted by SONY, it can not be redistributed with POPStarter. You have to find it. [1 file for SMB mode, POPS_IOX.PAK - MD5 : a625d0b3036823cdbf04a3c0e1648901]

# Find and download POPS_IOX.PAK;
# Create a directory named POPS in your PS2 shared folder;
# Copy POPS_IOP.PAK into POPS directory you’ve just created.

*b) Installing your PS1 Games :*

POPStarter/POPS doesn’t support PS1 disc images as .iso – but only as .VCD.

1. Create a disc image of your PS1 game as .BIN/.CUE;
2. Drag & drop your .CUE file over CUE2POPS.EXE to convert your BIN/CUE disc image to .VCD file (you can convert several games at once by running BULK_CUE2POPS.BAT);
3. Put your .VCD files in POPS directory of your PS2 shared folder.

*c) Installing POPStarter :*

1. Grab the network modules and edit the 2 .DAT files (syntax below) with your network settings;
2. Create a directory named POPSTARTER in the root of your PS2 memory card and put the network modules and the .DAT files in it;
3. Rename POPSTARTER.ELF as the name of your VCDs, replace the .VCD extension with a .ELF extension, add the SB. prefix; [example : for running a VCD named “Gran Turismo.VCD”, the POPStarter ELF must be renamed as “SB.Gran Turismo.ELF”];
4. Copy the ELFs where you want to run them from (example : mass:/POPSTARTER/SB.GAME.ELF).


Now, check your setup. It must be the same as this :

*///////////*
*SMB SETUP :*
*///////////*

pre. 
mc#:/POPSTARTER/IPCONFIG.DAT
mc#:/POPSTARTER/SMBCONFIG.DAT
mc#:/POPSTARTER/poweroff.irx
mc#:/POPSTARTER/ps2dev9.irx
mc#:/POPSTARTER/smsutils.irx
mc#:/POPSTARTER/ps2ip.irx
mc#:/POPSTARTER/ps2smap.irx
mc#:/POPSTARTER/smbman.irx
smb0:/My Shared Folder/POPS/POPS_IOX.PAK
smb0:/My Shared Folder/POPS/GAME.VCD
mass:/POPSTARTER/SB.GAME.ELF

=> to launch your game, run SB.GAME.ELF.

______________________________________________________________________________________________________________

//////////////////////////
** SMBCONFIG.DAT syntax **
//////////////////////////

In a single line : 
pre. 
SERVER IP ADDRESS space SHARE NAME


Example : 
pre. 
192.168.0.254 My Shared Folder


You can also specify a port, like this (default is 445) : 
pre. 
192.168.0.254:139 My Shared Folder


For user authentication, write your username to line 2 and your password to line 3.

Example :

pre. 
192.168.0.254 My Shared Folder
MyName
MyPassword


Note : don’t write anything to line 2 and 3 for guest access.

/////////////////////////
** IPCONFIG.DAT syntax **
///////////////////////// 

In a single line : 
pre. 
PS2 IP ADDRESS space NETMASK space GATEWAY


Example :

pre. 
192.168.0.13 255.255.255.0 192.168.0.254



______________________________________________________________________________________________________________

h3. "*Wiki Homepage*":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/Home