h1. *Quick-starter guide for USB :*
______________________________________________________________________________________________________________

This is a *step-by-step basic guide* for new POPStarter users. If you are already familiar with POPStarter, you don't need it. 

Quickstarter pack includes *last POPStarter STABLE version [Rev 13 - WIP5]* - recommended version for new POPStarter users. Once you consider yourself comfortable enough with this version, you can upgrade to the last beta and enjoy/experiment the last features - or wait for the next stable version - it's up to you.

Quickstarter pack includes the *necessary files to setup POPStarter correctly, and nothing more*. 

Quickstarter pack for USB : *"download": link *



*STEPS :*

*0.* Download quickstarter pack and extract it on your desktop ; 

*1.* Create a folder named "POPS" (without "") in the root of your USB drive ;
 
*2.* Find and download "POPS_IOX.PAK" file (google it, I can't/won't give it to you) and copy it into POPS folder ;

*3.* POPStarter/POPS doesn't support PS1 games images as .iso - but only as .VCD. First convert your PS1 games to .bin/.cue (using "ImgBurn":http://imgburn.com/ for example). Then copy your .bin/.cue into CUE2POPS folder (from quickstarter pack), and run the file named BULK_CUE2POPS.BAT. You can convert several games at once using BULK_CUE2POPS.BAT.

*4.* Copy your .VCD into "POPS" folder on your USB device ;

*5.* Rename POPStarter.ELF to XX.Name of your game.ELF (example : XX.Crash Bandicoot.elf). The names of your ELF and the name of your VCD must be the same - it's case sensitive.

Incorrect : 

pre. 
CRASH BANDICOOT.ELF
Crash_Bandicoot.VCD

Correct : 

pre. 
CRASH BANDICOOT.ELF
CRASH BANDICOOT.VCD


*6.* Your setup must look like this : 

pre. 
mass:/POPS/POPS_IOP.PAK
mass:/POPS/Crash Bandicoot.VCD
mass:/XX.Crash Bandicoot.elf

*7.* Plug your USB device into your PS2, run XX.Name of your game.ELF with uLE and enjoy.


______________________________________________________________________________________________________________

h1. "*Home*":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/Home