h1. *POPStarter for SMB (since OBT 08)*


______________________________________________________________________________________________________________
_[Up-to-date with WIP 06, OBT 13 (2015/12/07)]_

h2. _POPS compressed file :_

To use POPStarter in SMB mode, you have to find and download the compressed POPS file. This file is named "POPS_IOP.PAK" and it's the same as the USB mode uses... You are on your own to find it (google is your friend ;) )

| *File name* | *MD5* | *Description* | *Location* |
| POPS_IOX.PAK | a625d0b3036823cdbf04a3c0e1648901 | old POPS.PAK with network modules embedded | smb0:/YourSharedFolder/POPS/POPS_IOX.PAK |

h2. _Other Software Requirements :_

* A software that allows you to convert your disc images to the POPS virtual CDROM format (such as ToolBox)
* A PS2 software that allows you to execute the POPStarter ELFs (such as uLaunchELF, or Free Harddisk Drive Boot...) or a GUI to execute POPSTARTER.ELF by selecting the VCDs (such as uLE_kHn_20150602)
* PS2 network modules
* A text editor (such as Notepad)

h2. _Hardware Requirements :_

* A PS2 console which is able to run PS2 unsigned code
* A PS2 console with a network interface (network adaptor or native)
* A PS2 memory card

______________________________________________________________________________________________________________

h2. _A) Installing the Emulator :_

# Find and download the compressed emulator files;
# Create a directory named "POPS" in your PS2 shared folder;
# Copy POPS_IOP.PAK  into the "POPS" directory you've just created.

h2. _B) Installing your PS1 Games :_ 

# Convert your BIN/CUE disc images to .VCD files using the latest stable version of Toolbox;
# Put your .VCD files in the "POPS" directory of your PS2 shared folder.

h2. _C) Installing POPStarter & the network modules :_ 

# Grab the network modules and edit the 2 DAT files (syntax below) with your network settings;
# Paste the network modules and the DAT files into mc#/:POPSTARTER/ folder;
# Rename the POPStarter ELF as the name of your VCDs, replace the .VCD extension with a .elf extension, add the SB. prefix;   [example : for running a VCD named "Gran Turismo.VCD", the POPStarter ELF must be renamed as "SB.Gran Turismo.elf"];
# Copy or leave the ELFs where you want to run them from.


* *SMBCONFIG.DAT syntax :*

In a single line, 

pre. 
SERVER IP ADDRESS space SHARE NAME

Example below:


pre. 
192.168.0.254 My Shared Folder


You can also specify a port, like this (default is 445) :

pre. 
192.168.0.254:139 My Shared Folder



For user authentication, write your username to line 2 and your password to line 3.

Example below:

pre. 
192.168.0.254 My Shared Folder
MyName
MyPassword

* *IPCONFIG.DAT syntax* _(this file is optionnal in SMB mode)_

In a single line, 

pre. 
PS2 IP ADDRESS space NETMASK space GATEWAY


Example below:

pre. 
192.168.0.13 255.255.255.0 192.168.0.254



h2. _Example of Setup :_ 

pre. 
=== SMB LAUNCH TYPE ===
mc#:/POPSTARTER/IPCONFIG.DAT
mc#:/POPSTARTER/SMBCONFIG.DAT
mc#:/POPSTARTER/poweroff.irx
mc#:/POPSTARTER/ps2dev9.irx
mc#:/POPSTARTER/smsutils.irx
mc#:/POPSTARTER/ps2ip.irx
mc#:/POPSTARTER/ps2smap.irx
mc#:/POPSTARTER/smbman.irx
smb0:/YourSharedFolder/POPS/POPS_IOX.PAK
smb0:/YourSharedFolder/POPS/Crash Bandicoot.VCD
smb0:/YourSharedFolder/POPS/SB.Crash Bandicoot.elf

______________________________________________________________________________________________________________

h2. _Additional notes :_

* The file extension .VCD has to be uppercase.
* The third character of the ELF prefix is a dot (PPdot / __dot / XXdot / SBdot).
* The prefix has to be uppercase
* You can load the network modules from the MC that is in the second slot too. (When a file can't be found in mc0:/POPSTARTER/, POPStarter tries to load it from mc1:/POPSTARTER/...).
* Debug info at startup can not be skipped.

______________________________________________________________________________________________________________

h1. "*Back*":https://bitbucket.org/SaulGoodman/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/Home