h1. *Toolbox commands*


______________________________________________________________________________________________________________
_[Tool Box Version 1.0]_

h2. _List of Toolbox commands :_

| *Command* | *Description* | 
| -cue2pops | Convert a BIN+CUE to a POPS formatted VCD | 
| -lc | Make a LibCrypt cracker, for protected PAL games (TROJAN file) | 
| -vmode |  Make a PAL to NTSC patcher, expect unpleasant rendering (TROJAN file) |
| -trainer | Compile a trainer so you activate permanent game cheats (TROJAN file) | 
| -makeosd | Convert a PS-X executable to a replacement OSD file (OSD.BIN) |
| -igrpix | Assemble an IGR theme that you can copy to VMC folders (PATCH file) |
| -vmcid | Configure POPStarter so it assigns a user ID to the VMCs |
| -dbgdelay | Configure POPStarter so you can see the debug texts for the time you want |
| -usbdelay | Configure the USB Mass access delay of POPStarter and the PFS Wrapper |
| -cdid | Save the disc identification data, for dev or version check purposes |


______________________________________________________________________________________________________________

h2. _Details :_

h3. _*-cue2pops :*_   

* _Tool name (version) :_ CUE2POPS Lite (base v2.1 beta 2)  

pre. 
Hello! I convert BIN+CUE disc images to the POPS format.  
The BIN has to be a raw MODE2/2352 dump.
The CUE has to be a standard ASCII cuesheet.
Splitted dumps (with separate tracks) are not supported.
High density dumps (aka merged/combined discs) are supported.
Old extra commands gap++, gap--, vmode, trainer, whatever, no longer exist.

* _Usage :_

pre. 
"toolbox.exe" -cue2pops "input_file" "output_file"

OR

pre. 
"toolbox.exe" -cue2pops "input_file"

* _Examples :_ 

pre. 
toolbox -cue2pops "K:\toolbox\AMERICAN_POOL.cue" "L:\POPS\AMERICAN_POOL.VCD"

OR 


pre. 
toolbox -cue2pops "K:\toolbox\AMERICAN_POOL.cue" 


* _Notes :_  
input_file must be an ASCII cuesheet (CUE) which points to a Mode 2 Form 1 CD-ROM image
output_file is the filename of the VCD you want to create (optional).


______________________________________________________________________________________________________________

h3. _*-lc :*_   

* _Tool name (version) :_ LC Crack Trojan Maker 

pre. 
Hello! I make TROJANs that crack your LibCrypt protected games.
The crack is applied to the POPS memory, so your VCD remains untouched.
1. Run your game in pSX/ePSXe/PCSX/Xebra (must have a genuine SBI or SUB)
2. Do a savestate as soon as it has gone past the LibCrypt thread
3. Decompress the savestate if it's compressed

* _Usage :_ :

pre. 
"toolbox.exe" -lc "input_file"

* _Notes :_  
input_file can be :
- a pSX Quicksave (PSV)
- a Xebra Running Image
- a PCSX Save State v3 (Uncompressed)
- a PCSX Save State v4 (Uncompressed)
- an ePSXe Save State (Uncompressed)
"(Uncompressed)" means that you must decompress it manually, using a gzip archiver such as 7-Zip...


______________________________________________________________________________________________________________


h3. _*-vmode :*_  

* _Tool name (version) :_ PAL2NTSC Trojan Maker v1.0

pre. 
Hello! I make TROJANs that patch your games VMODE to NTSC.
The patch is applied to the POPS memory, so your VCD remains untouched.
Results are as horrible as what you got with the vmode function of the old CUE2POPS, because the display is not resized nor cropped to the NTSC resolution.
Games with multiple EXEs/routines are not supported.

* _Usage :_

pre. 
"toolbox.exe" -vmode "input_file"


* _Example :_ 

pre. 
toolbox -vmode "K:\toolbox\SLUS_014.88"


* _Notes :_  
input_file can be :
- a pSX Quicksave (PSV)
- an ePSXe Save State (Uncompressed)
- a PCSX Save State v3 (Uncompressed)
- a PCSX Save State v4 (Uncompressed)
- a Xebra Running Image
- a PS-X Executable
- a PS-X RAM Dump
- a PS2 Kernel Memory Dump (POPS)
- a PS2 User Memory Dump (POPS)
"(Uncompressed)" means that you must decompress it manually, using a gzip archiver such as 7-Zip...


______________________________________________________________________________________________________________



h3. _*-trainer :*_  

* _Tool name (version) :_ Game Trainer Maker Version 1.0

pre. 
Hello! I compile trainers (per-game cheat plugins), from a text file that contains PS1 GameShark/Action Replay codes
for your game.

* _Usage :_

pre. 
"toolbox.exe" -trainer "your codelist.txt"


* _Example :_ 

pre. 
toolbox -trainer "K:\toolbox\2Xtreme.txt"


* _Notes :_  
Syntax of the codelist:
- Each line of code you want to "activate" must start with the character $
- There must be a whitespace between the address and the value in your code(s)
- The supported code types are 30, 50, 80 and D0
- Anything that doesn't match the above criteria’s will be ignored on compile

Example of a codelist:

pre. 
Unlock All Tracks
$80076398 3F3F
Refresh Skill Bonus (Press Select)
$D00B69F2 0100
$80086BB8 0200
Stop Timer
$50000202 3BF1
$8005D468 270F




______________________________________________________________________________________________________________

h1. "*Back*":https://bitbucket.org/SaulGoodman/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/Home