h1. *"uLE_kHn":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/apps-last-version*


______________________________________________________________________________________________________________

uLE_kHn is a modified version of AKuHAK's "uLE 4.42e HDD edition WIP7":http://psx-scene.com/forums/f113/unofficial-launchelf-v4-42-a-37242/#post261143. It has 2 main features : 
* Same as WIP7, it can create HDD partitions with no "+" symbol at start - to create the __.POPS/ partition ;
* It can be used as a GUI to launch your VCDs directly. Just place a single copy of POPSTARTER.ELF in your POPS folder and you're done (no need to rename it). 

*Example of working setup - USB mode :*

pre. 
mass:/POPS/POPS_IOX.PAK
mass:/POPS/Crash Bandicoot.VCD
mass:/POPS/POPSTARTER.ELF
mc0:/BOOT/BOOT.ELF

*Notes :* 

* Launching VCDs in SMB mode is not supported ;
* Do not use it as your normal uLE version - it's based on obsolete stuff.

______________________________________________________________________________________________________________

h2. _Changelog :_ 

*Note :* uLE_kHn is discontinued.

* *"uLE_kHn_20160723 - 2016/07/24":https://assemblergames.com/threads/ps2-pops-stuff-popstarter.45347/page-84#post-895246*

pre. 
The new uLE_kHn_20160723 is the same as uLE_kHn_20150727, but I've restored the USB drivers of my PS2SDK installation.

* *uLE_kHn_20150727 - 2015/07/27*

pre. 
- Sbv from PS2SDK commit c6cd5b3447.
- Old USBD (CRC32 8EA56869) + USBHDFSD of POPStarter r13 WIP 02/05 (CRC32 E96C037A).
- Added support for running VCDs from mass:/POPS#/ (as introduced in POPStarter r13 WIP 06 OBT).
- The stub of the packed ELF is a clone of the POPStarter r13 payload.
Side note : compiled the same day as POPStarter r13 WIP 06 open beta 6.

* *"uLE_kHn_2015/06/02 - 2015/06/03":https://assemblergames.com/threads/ps2-pops-stuff-popstarter.45347/page-61#post-813385*

pre. 
- Fixed : Red screen of death in the PSX after selecting MISC/PS2Browser.
- MISC/PS2Browser does not skip the HDD and the MC when uLE has not been run from the MBR.

* *"uLE_kHn_20150506 - 2015/05/06":https://www.metagames-eu.com/forums/1770217-post163.html*

pre. 
- Fixed : Cannot launch ELFs/VCDs on slims and fats that don't have a HDD.

______________________________________________________________________________________________________________

h3. "*Index*":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/index