h1. *POPStarter for USB*


______________________________________________________________________________________________________________
_[Up-to-date with WIP 06, OBT 13 (2015/12/07)]_

h2. _POPS compressed file :_

To use POPStarter with an external HDD or a flash disk, you have to find and download the compressed POPS file. This file is named "POPS_IOP.PAK"... You are on your own to find it (google is your friend ;) )

| *File name* | *MD5* | *Description* | *Location* |
| POPS_IOX.PAK | a625d0b3036823cdbf04a3c0e1648901 | old POPS.PAK with network modules embedded | mass0:/POPS/ |

h2. _Other Software Requirements :_

* A software that allows you to convert your disc images to the POPS virtual CDROM format (such as "ToolBox":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/downloads/ToolBox.zip)
* A PS2 software that allows you to execute the POPStarter ELFs (such as "uLaunchELF":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/downloads/uLE_kHn_20150727.zip, or "Free MC Boot":http://ichiba.geocities.jp/ysai187/PS2/FMCB/...), or a GUI to execute POPSTARTER.ELF by selecting the VCDs (such as uLE_kHn_20150602)

h2. _Hardware Requirements :_

* A PS2 console which is able to run PS2 unsigned code
* An USB mass storage device, FAT12 or FAT16 or FAT32 formatted (not NTFS !)

______________________________________________________________________________________________________________

h2. _A) Installing the Emulator :_

#  Find and download the emulator compressed file;
#  Create a directory named "POPS" in the root of your USB device;
#  Copy POPS_IOP.PAK  into the "POPS" directory you've just created.

h2. _B) Installing your PS1 Games :_ 

# Convert your BIN/CUE disc images to .VCD files using the latest stable version of Toolbox;
# Put your .VCD files in the "POPS" directory which is in the root of your USB device.

h2. _C) Installing POPStarter :_ 

#  Rename the POPStarter ELF as the name of your VCDs, replace the .VCD extension with a .elf extension, add the XX. prefix;   [example : for running a VCD named "Gran Turismo.VCD", the POPStarter ELF must be renamed as "XX.Gran Turismo.elf"]
#  Copy or leave the ELFs where you want to run them from.

*Note :* you no longer need PFS_WRAP.BIN since OBT8, it's now embedded into POPStarter ELF.

h2. _Example of Setup :_ 

 

pre. 
=== USB DEVICE, NEW LAUNCH TYPE ===
POPS/POPS_IOP.PAK
POPS/Crash Bandicoot.VCD
XX.Crash Bandicoot.elf

______________________________________________________________________________________________________________

h2. _USB launch type :_

USB supports only 1 launch type - the "new" one : 

|  | *USB launch type* | 
| *Prefix for POPStarter.ELF* | XX. | 
| *POPStarter folder name* | POPS or POPS# | 
| *Game name* | Name of the Game.VCD | 
| *Description* | Launch type introduced in POPStarter 13 WIP 02. Allows to run VCDs from an USB mass storage device. |
| *Example* | With the POPStarter ELF renamed as XX.Some Game.elf, POPStarter will launch Some Game.VCD which is in the POPStarter folder named /POPS/ or /POPS0/ or /POPS1/ up to /POPS9/ placed in USB root. |

______________________________________________________________________________________________________________

h2. _Additional notes :_


* The USB hard disk / flash disk has to be FAT12 or FAT16 or FAT32 formatted, AND DEFRAGMENTED.
* If you use several POPS# folders, the usual files for the POPS folder (POPS_IOP.PAK & the TM2s) must remain in the main POPS folder.
* If you have a BIOS.BIN, a PATCH_#.BIN, a TROJAN_#.BIN or a VMCDIR.TXT in the POPS folder, you'll have to copy them to all the POPS# folder you create.
* You can still use the old POPS.ELF+IOPRP252.IMG files (POPS.PAK), but updating to POPS_IOP_PAK is highly recommended.
* You can use your own USB modules (usbd.irx & usbhdfsd.irx, case sensitive, lowercase, no file size restriction) from mc#:/POPSTARTER/. When a file can't be found in mc0:/POPSTARTER/, POPStarter tries to load it from mc1:/POPSTARTER/.... Mass is not supported anymore.
* The third character of the ELF prefix is a dot (XXdot).
* The prefix has to be uppercase.
* The file extension .VCD has to be uppercase.

______________________________________________________________________________________________________________

h1. "*Back*":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/Home
 