h1. *Convert your PS1 games to VCD format*



______________________________________________________________________________________________________________


POPS doesn’t support PS1 games images as .iso. It uses virtual CD-ROM format (.VCD files). You need to create a 1:1 image of your PS1 game, first in .BIN+.CUE format using your favorite dump software, then to convert it to .VCD. 

Your .BIN image must be a raw MODE2/2352 dump and the .CUE a standard ASCII cuesheet. Open the .CUE file in a text editor and check the first lines. If you can see "MODE2/2352", it's ok. 
 
* *How to convert to .VCD format :*

To convert your PS1 games from .BIN+.CUE to .VCD format, you need to use the last version of "CUE2POPS":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/apps-last-version.

# Put your .BIN+.CUE image of your PS1 game in CUE2POPS folder ;
# Drag and drop your .CUE file on CUE2POPS.EXE file ;
# A .VCD image of your game is created in CUE2POPS folder. 


*Notes :* 

* You can convert several games at once by running the BULK_CUE2POPS.BAT. BULK_CUE2POPS.BAT must be placed in CUE2POPS folder, along with your PS1 game images, as .BIN/.CUE.
* For multi-disc games, please read this section about how to use the "swap disc feature":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/multi-disc.
* CUE2POPS is a part of Toolbox soft, which can do more than only convert your games to .VCD format. For a complete description of Toolbox, see "here":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/toolbox-commands.
* Linux users, you can get CUE2POPS src code with changes made for Linux "here":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/downloads/cue2pops_src_linux.7z. Download gcc with your distribution package manager and compile the file (info by SovietStriker @"ASSEMblergames":http://assemblergames.com/l/threads/ps2-pops-stuff.45347/page-55#post-792589).

______________________________________________________________________________________________________________

h3. "*Index*":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/index