h1. *Convert your PS1 games to VCD format*



______________________________________________________________________________________________________________

h2. _VCD creation :_ 


POPS uses virtual CDROM format (.VCD). You need to create a 1:1 image of your PS1 game, first in .BIN+.CUE format using your favorite dump software, then to .VCD. 

Your .BIN image must be a raw MODE2/2352 dump and the .CUE a standard ASCII cuesheet. Open the .CUE file in a text editor and check the first line. If you can see "MODE2/2352", it's ok. 
 
* *How to convert to .VCD :*

To convert your PS1 games from .BIN+.CUE to .VCD, you need to use the last version of CUE2POPS included into "Toolbox":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/downloads/ToolBox.zip. 

# Put your .BIN+.CUE image in the Toolbox folder. 
# Drag & drop your .CUE file on the CUE2POPS.BAT file. 
# A .VCD image of your game will be created in the folder. 


*Notes :* 

* Toolbox can do more than only convert your games to .VD. For a complete description, see "here"::https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/Toolbox%20commands.
* If your .CUE is missing, you can download an archive (lot of PS1 .CUEs) from "here":http://redump.org/cues/psx/ (do not forget that names of .BIN & .CUE must match. Ex : Driver.bin & Driver.cue. Rename your .BIN, as maybe the .CUE you downloaded has info inside about CD tracks). 
* Linux users, you can get CUE2POPS src code with changes made for Linux "here":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/downloads/cue2pops_src_linux.zip Download gcc with your distributions package manager and compile the file (SovietStriker @"ASSEMblergames":http://assemblergames.com/l/threads/ps2-pops-stuff.45347/page-55#post-792589) 


______________________________________________________________________________________________________________

h2. _Multi-disc games :_ 

POPS doesn't have a swap disc feature. To play multi-disc games, you need to combine the several discs of your game into a single .BIN+.CUE files using a "kit":https://app.box.com/s/b02715f2fe91cdc42fd1 made by guys @"ngemu":http://ngemu.com/threads/disc-combining-kits.118402/, then convert it using Toolbox.

Kits : 

* NTSC-U collection

pre. 
Alone in the Dark - The New Nightmare
Brain Dead 13
Chrono Cross (*** POSSIBLE VIRUS WARNING ***)
Colony Wars
Countdown Vampires
D
Dragon Warrior VII
Driver 2
Fear Effect
Fear Effect 2
Final Fantasy VII
Final Fantasy VIII
Final Fantasy IX
G-Police
Galerians
Grandia
Heart of Darkness
In Cold Blood
Koudelka
Legend of Dragoon
Lunar - Silver Star Story Complete
Lunar 2 - Eternal Blue Complete
Metal Gear Solid
Novastorm
Oddworld - Abe's Exoddus
Parasite Eve
Parasite Eve II
Shadow Madness
Star Ocean - The Second Story
Star Wars - Rebel Assault II - The Hidden Empire
Syphon Filter 2
Tales of Destiny II
Thousand Arms
Valkyrie Profile
Wild Arms 2
Xenogears



* NTSC-J collection


pre. 
Brain Dead 13
Colony Wars
Creature Shock
Dragon Quest VII
Parasite Eve
Policenauts
Star Ocean - The Second Story
Valkyrie Profile
Wild Arms - 2nd Ignition
Xenogears



* PAL-E (S/G/I/F/..) collection


pre. 
Colony Wars
Driver 2 - Back On the Streets
Heart of Darkness
In Cold Blood
Novastorm
Star Wars - Rebel Assault II - The Hidden Empire



*Notes :*
* It's possible that the game doesn't work after being combined & converted. 
* Toolbox can handle such large .BIN+.CUE files, while CUE2POPS (old version) can't.
* If this method doesn't work, you can make a save just before the end of the disc 1, extract your save from the VMC, continue your game on PS1 PC emulator or PS1 retail console, save again after the launch of the 2nd disc, import your save to the VMC and continue your game with POPS (you will need 2 .VCD of your game, one for each disc).

______________________________________________________________________________________________________________

h2. _CUE2POPS/Toolbox changelog :_ 

h3. _Toolbox :_ 

*2014/10/19 - v1.0*

pre. 
Initial release (undocumented)


h3. _CUE2POPS (standalone versions) :_ 

*2013/05/16 - v2.0*

pre. 
+ Fixed : dumpsize not known / daTrack_ptr set to zero when running a non-debug build
+ Fixed : False-positive Y-Pos pattern detections
+ Fixed : Incorrect Track Type in the descriptor A2
+ Blocked non-MODE2/2352 dumps
+ The NTSCpatcher console output is no longer restricted to the DEBUG build
+ Introduced the title identification system
+ Introduced NTSC Patcher exceptions (deny_vmode), for Crash Bandicoot [SCES-00344]
+ Added the Y-Pos fix for PAL VMODE
+ Introduced game cheats (command "trainer"), for Crash Bandicoot NTSC J, NTSC U/C and PAL
+ Introduced game fixes (automatic), for MGS Special Missions [SLES-02136]
+ Pregap correctors (gap++, gap-- and the unconditional one) were rewritten
+ The CUE2POPS version identifier is now 0x20


*2013/04/22 - v1.2*

pre. 
+ Fixed : dumpsize not known / daTrack_ptr set to zero when trying to patch a single track game to NTSC
+ The CUE2POPS version identifier is now 0x02


*2013/04/19 - v1.1*

pre. 
+ A bit of sanitization
+ Fixed : the INDEX 01 of TRACK 01 = 00:02:00 (mistakenly marked as 00:00:00 in the previous build, without a pregap)
+ Now adds 2 seconds to all tracks unconditionally
+ Writes a CUE2POPS version identifier in the POPS header, for interaction with POPStarter Revision 10


*2013/04/06 - v1.0*

pre. 
Initial release





______________________________________________________________________________________________________________

h1. "*Back*":https://bitbucket.org/ShaolinAssassin/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/Home