h1. *Virtual Memory Cards*


______________________________________________________________________________________________________________
_[Up-to-date with WIP 06, OBT 13 (2015/12/07)]_

h2. _About VMC :_ 

When you launch a game for the very first time, a new folder named "Nameofyourgame.VCD" will be created into your POPS directory. It has 2 files (SLOT0.VMC & SLOT1.VMC), which are you VMC. If you know how to hexedit POPStarter, you can change it to have only 1 VMC created - or not at all. Check the "configuration table":https://bitbucket.org/SaulGoodman/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/POPStarter%20Configuration%20Table to know how to change the default setting (offset $429).

______________________________________________________________________________________________________________

h2. _Setting a path for the VMC folder :_

Here's how to change the destination VMC folder of your games :
Let's say your game is MY_GAME.VCD. The VMCs are saved to /POPS/MY_GAME/. You want the VMCs to be saved into /POPS/BLAHBLAH/ instead.
# Create an empty text file;
# Write BLAHBLAH into it;
# Save it as VMCDIR.TXT;
# Copy VMCDIR.TXT to /POPS/MY_GAME/

*Notes :* 
*  All the POPStarter files (TROJANs, PATCHes, cheats...) will still be loaded from /POPS/MY_GAME/, but POPS will use the VMCs that are in /POPS/BLAHBLAH/
* Characters that are obviously not allowed are / \ and :
* VMCDIR.TXT will not be loaded if it's bigger than 103 bytes or if it contains more than 1 line.
* New folder must still be placed in POPS folder.
* Can not be used to swap disk for multi-disk games.
* This feature is useful when you are several users and want to use different VMCs. Each user can have his own VMC folder.

______________________________________________________________________________________________________________

h2. _Additional notes :_ 

* No physical MC support ATM - would be veeeeerrrrrrryyyyyyy sllllllooooooooowwwww...

______________________________________________________________________________________________________________

h1. "*Back*":https://bitbucket.org/SaulGoodman/popstarter-documentation-stuff/wiki/Home

